A situation we have seen in History that has accurately represented the scenario of shared knowledge shaping personal knowledge was the Great Migration. The great migration was caused by the common belief that African Americans could have a lot better opportunities in the north, and it was this belief that influenced the individual African Amerians to make the decision to migrate. The Great Migration or the “Black Migration” occurred in the USA between 1916 and 1970 when over 6 million African Americans moved from the Southern states to the Northern states in search of a better way of life. Through various channels of information from newspapers to word of mouth, the lure of a brighter future, led many Black Americans to relocate from the agrarian Southern states to the more industrialized northern states such as New York, Boston, Chicago and Philadelphia. According to statistics, in 1910 African Americans in Connecticut comprised less than 2% of the population but by 1920 had increased by 143 percent based on the census taken at that time. ( Residential Segregation and the Beginning of the Great Migration of African Americans to Hartford, Connecticut ). The African Amerians were quick to trust and believe the shared knowledge that life was better in the north, as they experienced extreme discrimination in the south. This discrimination in the south had been present since slavery, as a great amount of the white population in the south still believed the African Americans to be nothing more than slaves, resulting in them paying African Americans extremely low wages. Another issue the African Americans faced in the south was the widespread lynching and the precence of the Ku Klux Klan, which forced the African Americans to live in constant fear for their lives. The Great Migration as a whole is an example of shared knowledge directly shaping personal knowledge, as the shared knowledge that life was better in the north shaped the individual Afriacan American’s understanding of where would be the best place for them to live in order to have the best life possible. This shared knowledge that was present in the African American community was formed by the personal knowledge of the African Americans who have already experienced life in the north and have shared their specific experiences. These experiences that were shared then spread throughout the African American community, therefore influencing the thoughts of the African Americans who still lived in the south. Now that the shared knowledge that life was better in the north for African Americans was present, it was now up to the African Americans in the south to perceive this information and make the decision of what will be best for them in their own lives. The two ways of knowing that worked hand in hand to influence the African Americans in the south to make the decision to move north were language and reason. They came to the conclusion that they should move to the north through language in what they heard from other members of the African American community. Also, they used reason when they took into consideration the positives and negatives of migrating north, which then helped them to come to their decision to move north.